Passkeys on iCloud Keychain blog post (#7382)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/passkeys-on-icloud-keychain/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: Chrome starts supporting passkeys on iCloud Keychain on macOS
description: >
  Chrome on macOS starts supporting passkeys on iCloud Keychain. This lets users create passkeys on iCloud Keychain and synchronize them across Apple devices.
subhead: >

>   Chrome on macOS starts supporting passkeys on iCloud Keychain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Chrome supports passkeys on iCloud Keychain starting in Chrome 118, on macOS 13.5 or later.
```

For example, a passkey created on Safari can be available in Chrome on macOS and
vice versa.

### Authentication

Users can also sign in to your website using the passkey stored in iCloud Keychain.

<figure>
  {% Img src="image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/wY36r97a8mkKTHUheiRe.png", alt="macOS's system user verification dialog that asks for Touch ID to sign in with a passkey saved to iCloud Keychain.", width="800", height="554" %}
  <figcaption>macOS's system user verification dialog that asks for Touch ID to sign in with a passkey saved to iCloud Keychain.</figcaption>
</figure>

Note that passkeys stored to Chrome profile previously continue to be available,
but ones stored to iCloud Keychain are prioritized. If only a passkey from
Chrome profile is available, it will be used to authenticate the user.

<figure>
  {% Img src="image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/FWFHutWv84m8EYJtyCTa.png", alt="Chrome's passkey dialog to sign in with a passkey saved to Chrome profile.", width="800", height="602" %}
  <figcaption>Chrome's passkey dialog to sign in with a passkey saved to Chrome profile.</figcaption>
</figure>

> If authentication is requested using form autofill (Conditional UI), passkeys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If authentication is requested using form autofill ([conditional UI](/blog/webauthn-conditional-ui/#conditional-ui)), passkeys
```

</figure>

Users can also cancel the macOS's user verification dialog and choose iCloud
Keychain or Chrome profile to save a new passkey.

<figure>
  {% Img src="image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/XSJAYPiUuUJUbfNJ8XHs.png", alt="If the user cancels the dialog, Chrome asks to choose how to create a passkey.", width="800", height="780" %}
  <figcaption>If the user cancels the dialog, Chrome asks to choose how to create a passkey.</figcaption>
</figure>

{% Aside %}

On macOS 13.4 or earlier, all passkeys created on Chrome on macOS are stored to
the [Chrome profile](https://support.google.com/chrome/a/answer/9025411) locally
by default and they are not synchronized across devices. The stored passkeys are
visible to the user from `chrome://settings/passkeys`.

Even on macOS 13.5 or later, passkeys are stored to Chrome profile if the user
is not signed into iCloud Drive.

{% endAside %}

## Distinguishing the origin of a passkey

Again, there are no changes required from developers to align their passkey
implementation with iCloud Keychain. The API behavior between Chrome profile and
iCloud Keychain are already identical.

> However, relying parties can distinguish the origin of a passkey whether it's
> created on iCloud Keychain or on Chrome profile if they wish, by looking at the
> [AAGUID](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#aaguid) (an identifier indicating the
> type of the authenticator) in [the credential's authenticator
> data](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-3/#sctn-attestation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relying parties can access the origin of a passkey and distinguish whether it's
been created on iCloud Keychain or on Chrome profile, by looking at the
[AAGUID](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#aaguid) (an identifier indicating the
type of the authenticator) in [the credential's authenticator
data](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-3/#sctn-attestation).
```

Author: What do you mean by "access the origin of a passkey" in this case?

Reviewer: I think it's the equivalent of  "know the origin by looking at AAGUID". Do you think "access" is not appropriate because it might imply some sort of API call or some other reason? We can also just say "relying parties can find out the origin of a passkey".

Author: Yeah, I thought "access" and "the origin" might sound as if there's a website or an endpoint. "relying parties can find out the origin of a passkey" sounds better.

Reviewer: Agreed, we don't want any confusion, thanks for raising it!

> The AAGUID of a passkey created in the Chrome profile is:
> `adce0002-35bc-c60a-648b-0b25f1f05503`. Ones in iCloud Keychain are:
> `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000` as of September 2023. You can find known
> AAGUIDs in a crowd sourced repository at
> [https://github.com/passkeydeveloper/passkey-authenticator-aaguids](https://github.com/passkeydeveloper/passkey-authenticator-aaguids)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AAGUID of a passkey created in Chrome profile is:
`adce0002-35bc-c60a-648b-0b25f1f05503`. In iCloud Keychain it is:
`00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000` as of September 2023. You can find known
AAGUIDs in the [crowd sourced AAGUID repository](https://github.com/passkeydeveloper/passkey-authenticator-aaguids).
```

> ## iCloud Keychain activation
> 
> If a user tries to use iCloud Keychain passkeys but is not signed into iCloud,
> or does not have iCloud Keychain syncing enabled, they are directed to System
> Settings.
> 
> <figure>
>   {% Img src="image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/1Gj5VCqfoLza5K3zRXDq.png", alt="A dialog shown when iCloud Keychain is not enabled on the user's macOS.", width="800", height="649" %}
>   <figcaption>A dialog shown when iCloud Keychain is not enabled on the user's macOS.</figcaption>
> </figure>
> 
> Also, users must grant Chrome permission to use iCloud Keychain on macOS the
> first time that they try.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## iCloud Keychain activation

Users must grant Chrome the permission to use iCloud Keychain on macOS the
first time they try.

If a user tries to use iCloud Keychain passkeys but is not signed into iCloud
or does not have iCloud Keychain syncing enabled, they are directed to System
Settings.

<figure>
  {% Img src="image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/1Gj5VCqfoLza5K3zRXDq.png", alt="A dialog shown when iCloud Keychain is not enabled on the user's macOS.", width="800", height="649" %}
  <figcaption>A dialog shown when iCloud Keychain is not enabled on the user's macOS.</figcaption>
</figure>
```
